well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about a question that was sent in it's
about a meme I don't get through all the
messages I try but I don't get to all of
them if it's important send it again if
I haven't like addressed it in a couple
of days so the question was asking me to
address Amin and I'm sure we've all seen
it or variation of it
why is nor can free to addicts but
EpiPens cost $600 okay so starting at
the top narcan's not free somebody pay
for that nor can is not free okay in
Scenario one EMS shows up it's the
person with narcan they build them if
they have insurance the insurance pays
for it if not they're supposed to pay
for it out of pocket if they don't the
cost gets eaten the same as any other
life-saving drug to include epi that's
how it works that's how the system works
and would you want it to work any other
way some kid gets stung by a bee is
laying there by the soccer field
EMS shows up and looks at his mom and
says I understand the kid is dying but
we need to see the insurance card first
no I've had this conversation a few
times so I know the next one is well
cops have it in their cars they do but
you'd have to be a pretty bad law
enforcement administrator to pay for
that out of pocket there are grants
everywhere for narcan
insurance companies will pay for it
substance abuse treatment centers will
pay for it there are foundations set up
by the parents of people who have od'd
that will pay for it it's out there and
the tour can is paid for by somebody the
follow-up is oh well what about the
training August 31st is international
overdose Awareness Day or something like
that
American addiction centers is offering
free training at all of their locations
nationwide the training is out there for
free
as well I do know of two departments
that use a drug forfeiture money to pay
for a narcan I mean that seems kind of
fitting to be honest another argument
that comes up is that it enables the
addict no no
the way this works is that it inhibits
the effects which sends the person into
withdrawal if you have ever seen anybody
in withdrawal you know that's a pretty
horrible experience it's also one of the
things that leads to people getting
clean there is no data that I have ever
seen and I look tonight to suggest that
narcan availability increases addiction
that's just not a thing but this mean
resonated because it plays on a stigma
and the idea is that people with
substance abuse problems are poor so
they can't pay for the narcan so it's
free that stigma exists and it creates
the idea that well we should just let
them die seriously that's what it's
saying because this is a life-saving
drug well people with substance abuse
issues are not always poor that that's
not true
many of them have insurance that's how
the scripts get filled
what this is is a classic case of
society training us to kick down why are
people really mad
is it because an addict got a dose that
costs $37.50 and saved their life
no no sane person as I agree about that
they're angry because EpiPens cost $600
and it costs two bucks to make I looked
the most recent manufacturing cost I
could find was $2.00 in the past I found
some that said it was eight and one that
said it was thirty any of those numbers
600 bucks that's a pretty huge markup
that's why you're angry that's why
people are mad but they feel powerless
against the pharmaceutical company so
the pharmaceutical company reps them off
charges of 600 bucks for something that
costs $2 can't do anything about that
need to feel better kick down there's
that lowly addict
and the message that gets conveyed is
that while addicts should die that's
what comes across it doesn't encourage
pharmaceutical companies to lower their
prices it encourages people to turn a
blind eye to those in need it encourages
the devaluation of human life anyway
it's just a fault
y'all have a good night